Application for an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter
What is an HFE letter (Implementation) [8 May 2023]
Make an informed decision
Log in to the HDB Flat Portal using your Singpass to apply for an HFE letter. The HFE letter will provide you with a holistic understanding of your housing and financing options and help you plan your budget before you embark on your home buying journey. Second-timers will also be informed on the resale levy/ premium payable for the purchase of a subsidised flat from HDB. Read our frequently asked questions on the HFE letter and how to apply for one.

Integrated loan application service
You may request an In-Principle Approval (IPA) from the participating financial institutions (FIs) when you apply for an HFE letter. The IPA will provide you with the FI’s indicative loan amount. Your chosen FI(s) will reach out to you directly on the outcome(s) of your IPA application(s) and you will be able to confirm their loan offer(s) through the HDB Flat Portal after you have secured a flat purchase. The service is free of charge. Read more about the integrated loan application service.

Guide to HFE letter application
Find out about the application process and important information about the HFE letter below.

When to apply
Plan and apply for the HFE letter early.

If you are buying a new flat	If you are buying a resale flat
You must have a valid HFE letter when you apply to buy a flat from HDB.	You must have a valid HFE letter before you obtain an Option to Purchase (OTP) from a flat seller, and when you submit your resale application to HDB.
The processing time is about a month, after we have received the full set of required documents. The processing time may be longer before and during the month of a sales exercise due to high application volume. An SMS and email notification will be sent to you once the outcome is available.

If you intend to buy a flat, do apply for an HFE letter early.

Additional notes
You may only apply for an HFE letter online, and the application is free of charge.

You may only be listed in 1 HFE letter application, either as an applicant or occupier.

How to apply
Here is an overview of the HFE letter application process.

Apply for an HFE letter 9 Apr 2025

Read our step-by-step guide or watch the videos below.

Step 1: Check Preliminary HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE)

Step 2: Apply for HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter

Additional information
Have a valid Singpass account
All applicants and required occupiers must have a valid Singpass account when applying for the HFE letter.

Please visit the Singpass website if you need to register for a Singpass account or reset the password.

Provide accurate information when completing Steps 1 and 2
You must start Step 1 - Check Preliminary HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) afresh if there are any changes to the details you have provided.

The applicant(s) and occupier(s) listed in your new or resale flat application must remain the same as those in your HFE letter application.

You will not be able to make any changes after you have submitted your HFE letter application. If you need to make changes, you must cancel your HFE letter application and apply for a fresh one.

Complete Steps 1 and 2 within 30 calendar days of each other
Complete Step 1 - Check Preliminary HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) and Step 2 - Apply for an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter within 30 calendar days of each other.

If you can, complete both steps within the same calendar month. Otherwise, you will need to update the employment and income details of all persons listed in the application^.

E.g. ^ You have completed Step 1 in May 2023 and proceed with Step 2 in June 2023.

Changes to HFE letter application
It depends on where you are in your HFE letter application, as follows:


You are at Step 1 – Check Preliminary HDB Flat Eligibility (Step 1 in draft)
Use the “Back” button at the bottom of the page to navigate to earlier pages to make changes.

You have completed Step 1 and received the preliminary outcome
Select the “Redo” button in Step 1 of the Buying Process to make changes.

You are at Step 2 – Apply for HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter
Click the link “Start afresh your Preliminary HFE check” at the review page to go back to Step 1 – Check Preliminary HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) to make changes.

You have completed Step 2 or have received an HFE letter
If you wish to update your contact details, please submit a request via our e-Service.

If you need to make other changes, please refer to the usage of HFE letter and changes in household details for more information.

You have applied for a flat with the HFE letter	Please write to us via MyRequest@HDB with your HFE reference number and sales registration number (new flat) or resale case number (resale flat).
Upload documents, check status of application or view HFE letter
You will be notified via SMS and email if you need to submit additional documents for our review, or when your HFE letter is ready.

Log in to the HDB Flat Portal and follow these steps to:

Upload the required documents	Select My Flat Dashboard > Applying an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter > Step 2 - Apply for HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter > Upload Documents
Check status of HFE letter application or view HFE letter
Select My Flat Dashboard > Applying an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter > Step 2 - Apply for HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter > View Letter


Income guidelines
Understand the guidelines for income assessment and documents to get a head start on your application.

When you apply for an HFE letter, you will be guided to retrieve your information via Myinfo to minimise form-filling and reduce submission of documents. However, in some cases, supporting documents may still be required as Myinfo may not have all the required information or details. You will be informed via SMS and email if you need to submit documents.

Get a head start on your application by reading our income guidelines.

Validity and possible review of HFE letter
Understand when and why your HFE letter may be reviewed.

Validity of HFE letter
The HFE letter is valid for 9 months from the date of issue.

If you have already submitted a flat application with your HFE letter, you may proceed with the flat purchase even if the HFE letter has since expired.

Possible review of HFE letter
The outcome of your HFE letter will be reviewed if:

Any given information is untrue or incorrect
You and any persons listed in the application do not comply with any terms and conditions to buy an HDB flat, apply for CPF housing grants and/ or take up an HDB housing loan
There are any changes in your family members, or other circumstances such as changes in HDB’s policies and/ or processes which may affect your eligibility to buy an HDB flat, apply for CPF housing grants and/ or take up an HDB housing loan
If you book an uncompleted flat with HDB, we will review your financial position nearer the completion of the flat, to confirm that there are no adverse changes in your ability to service the HDB housing loan. Otherwise, the loan amount may be reduced.

Use of HFE letter and changes in household details
The applicant(s) and occupier(s) listed in your new or resale flat application must remain the same as those in your HFE letter application.

If there are changes to your household details, this may affect your eligibility to buy an HDB flat, obtain CPF housing grants and/ or take up an HDB housing loan and hence, invalidate your HFE letter. Accordingly, HDB reserves the right to cancel your new or resale flat application(s).

For new flat application, the usual financial forfeitures and consequences for the cancellation will apply, depending on the stage of the application at the time of the cancellation.

For resale flat application, you will remain liable to the flat seller under the Option to Purchase which you have exercised.

If you need to make changes, please follow the steps below, depending on the stage of your HFE letter application:


Stage of HFE Letter Application
Procedure
Pending approval	Cancel your HFE letter. After cancellation, apply for a fresh HFE letter (i.e. complete Step 1 and Step 2 of the buying process again) by logging in to the HDB Flat Portal.
Approved
There is no action required if there is a change in your household income.

If you need to make the following changes:

Addition/ removal of household member(s)
Change in status from an applicant to an occupier or vice versa
Marital status
Citizenship
Ownership of private properties

Before submission of new or resale flat application
Cancel and apply for a fresh HFE letter (i.e. complete Step 1 and Step 2 of the buying process again) by logging in to the HDB Flat Portal.
After submission of new or resale flat application	Please write to us via MyRequest@HDB with your HFE reference number and sales registration number (for new flat) or resale case number (for resale flat).
Re-application of HFE letter
If you have already submitted a flat application with your HFE letter, you do not need a fresh HFE letter to continue with the flat application.

If your HFE letter is expiring in the next 30 days and you need more time to submit a new or resale flat application, please apply for a fresh HFE letter. If there are no changes in the applicant(s) and occupier(s) listed other than their employment or income, please log in to the HDB Flat Portal, select My Flat Dashboard > Applying an HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) letter > Step 2 - Apply for HDB Flat Eligibility (HFE) Letter > View/ Re-apply HFE Letter.

If you need to make other changes, you may refer to the use of HFE letter and changes in household details for more information.

HDB will process your HFE letter application based on your latest situation and prevailing policies. Until a fresh HFE letter is issued, you may continue using the existing unexpired HFE letter for a flat purchase.

Next steps with your HFE letter
Set off on your home buying journey with your valid HFE letter.

With your HFE letter, you can embark on your buying journey with certainty on the HDB Flat Portal. Check out the infographic for the next steps in your home buying journey. All the best!
